README.md, before:

# Benin Bronzes

The Benin Bronzes website informs visitors about the origins, historic encounters and cultural relevance of the famous Benin Bronzes artefacts.

By combining historic events with contemporary issues relating to these artefacts it is desired that visitors to the website will gain more insights about the Benin Bronzes and as such awaken their support for those advocating for the return of these artefacts back to their place of origin Benin City.

![Image of the website](/assets/images/amiresponsive.webp)

[The live link to the hosted project](https://peterudu.github.io/benin-bronzes/) 

## User Experience (UX)
### User Stories
#### First Time Visitors Goals
- I want to be able to access and use the website with different screen-sized devices.
- I want an easy-to-use and easily navigable website.
#### Returning Visitors Goals
- I want a website where I can get a broad and up-to-date information concerning the Benin Bronzes.
- I want to have the possibility to make contact and interact with the creators of the site and members of the Benin Bronzes Club.
#### Frequent Visitors Goals
-  I want a site that not only offers me information but also gives me advice, recommendations and help on where to get further information that I may need.
 
## Design
### Colour Scheme
The body of the website pages is characterized by a light terracotta-coloured background which is used to present the basic face of the website. This colour was purposely chosen with the aim of blending the background colour with the traditional colour of the Benin Bronzes artefacts in order to capture the atmosphere of Benin City, the origin of where the objects were created. To achieve a contrasting display, dark shades of black and brown are used for the headings and for the text which gives the site’s visitor a calming feel.

![A range of colours](/assets/images/range-of-colors.webp)
The colour choice was aided using the [webfx color-picker](https://www.webfx.com/web-design/color-picker/ ) tool

### Typography
Google Fonts was used to select the following free fonts:
- Roboto for the prominent h1 and h2 headings.
- Raleway for the body text content on the website.

Both fonts are san-serif and they complement each other.
### Imagery

### Wireframes
Wireframes of the home page were created for mobile and desktop devices.

- [Wireframe of home page on a desktop device](/assets/images/home-page-wireframe-desktop.webp)
- [Wireframe of home page on a mobile device](/assets/images/home-page-wireframe-mobile.webp)

### Features
The Benin Bronzes website has four pages, namely the home page, timeline page, gallery page and sign up page. Each of these pages are linked to one another and they can be accessed using the navigation menu in the navigation bar.
- Navigation Bar
    - The navigation bar is responsive and is a feature on all the pages of the website. The navigation bar contains the logo to the left and to the right a navigation menu with links to the home page, the timeline page, gallery page and the sign up page.
    - The navigation bar allows the site user to navigate from one page to another without the need to return back to the previous page. This provides for a better user experience.
    

    ![Navigation Bar](/assets/images/navigation-bar.webp)

- Footer
    - The footer is responsive. It is a feature on all the pages of the website. The footer contains social media links which open to a new tab and so allowing the user to navigate easily.
    - The footer enables and employs the user to remain connected using social media

    ![Footer](/assets/images/footer.webp)

- Home Page
    - Hero image with text overlay
        - The home page has a large hero image of a Benin Bronze artefact and a text overlay which together immediately informs the visitor what the whole site is about.
        - The hero image with the animation immediately captures the attention of the user towards the site and makes them inquisitive for more.


        ![Hero image with text overlay](/assets/images/hero-image-feature.webp)
    

    - Showcase section
        - The showcase introduces the main object of focus of the site, namely the Benin Bronzes to the user, explains what the artefacts are, and explains their importance to its original creators and why they are also important today.
        -  This showcase section content benefits the users of the site because with this information they are quickly captured in the story being told and get the motivation to continue to use the site.
        - As part of the section is an embedded video clip with entertaining background information of the artefacts and about the issues involved. The video is a lighter way for a site visitor to quickly grasp the essence of sites main message.


      ![Showcase section](/assets/images/showcase-section.webp)
    - Issues section
        - The issues section begins with an image of a significant event that occured in the past. It then focuses on contemporary topics and events concerning the Benin Bronzes.
        -  The issues section also gives users tips on where and how to get further information on the subject matter and refers them to the signup page. 
        - With the information gained in this section the user will be able to interract with the author of the website and make contributions.


      ![Issues section](/assets/images/issues-section.webp)


### Accessibility
In order to ensure that the website is accessible the following measures were taken:
- The code was written using semantic HTML.
- In the footer I added aria-labels to icons used as links to social media to enable screen readers understand their purpose.
- The alt attribute was used for images on the website to describe them to screen readers.
- I used contrasting background colour and text colours on the website
## Technologies Used
### Languages Used
The languages used to create this site were HTML and CSS
### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used
Git was used for version control.

Github was used to save and store the files for the website.

Gitpod workspace was used to write and edit code for the website.

Balsamiq was used to create wireframes for the website.

Fontawesome was use to generate icons on the website.

Google Fonts was used to import fonts used on the website.

Chrome DevTools was used to inspect the rendered HTML and test out features of the website.

[Tiny PNG](https://tinypng.com/) was used to compress some images used on the website.

[Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive) was used to show how the website would look on different devices.

[Birme](https://www.birme.net/?no_resize=true&image_format=webp) was used to change images to webp format.

[Favicon.io](https://favicon.io/) was used to create favicon for the website

## Deployment & Local Development
### Deployment
The site was deployed to GitHub pages. For the deployment the following steps are required:
1. Login to GitHub repository and navigate to the Settings tab. 
2. From the left sidebar options select Pages from the menu.
3. Under section Github Pages go to subsection Build and deployment, then set Branch to main and click save. The website is deployed and a live link for the website will be generated.

### Local Development
To clone this project proceed with the following steps:
1. Login to GitHub and go to the repository of this project, https://github.com/peterudu/benin-bronzes.
2. Chose and click the green Code button.
3. Select a cloning method from one of options, either HTTPS, SSH or GitHub CLI and copy the offered link.
4. Open up the terminal of your code editor, select a directory for your project, type in the Git command  - ‘git clone’ and then paste in the copied link from the github repository.

## Testing
### Automated Testing
#### W3C Validator
- [W3C HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/) was used to validate the HTML on the following pages of the website.
    - [index.html](/assets/images/w3c-indexhtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors
    - [timeline.html](/assets/images/w3c-timelinehtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors
    - [gallery.html](/assets/images/w3c-galleryhtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors 
    - [signup.html](/assets/images/w3c-signuphtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors

<br>

- [W3C CSS validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) was used to validate the CSS stylesheet.
    - [style.css](/assets/images/w3c-css-validator.webp) - passed test no error
#### Lighthouse
I used the Lighthouse feature from Chrome Developer Tools to test the levels of accessibility, performance and best practices for moblie and desktop devices. For both devices the accessibility results were over 97 percent.
- [Desktop Results](/assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-results.webp)
- [Mobile Result](/assets/images/lighthouse-mobile-results.webp)
### Manual Testing
#### Testing User Stories
Firsttime Visitors
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| ---| ---|
| I want to be able to access and use the website with different screen-sized devices. | I developed the site with the set out goal of it being responsive as such it could be accessed with either a mobile phone, a tablet, a laptop or a desktop. |
| I want an easy-to-use and easily navigable website. | The site pages have an identical navigation bar with menu links which enables the visitor to easily move from one page to the next. I used a uniform background on all pages, large readable headings, simple icons and interesting video medium to create an enjoyable experience for the visitor. |

Returning Visitors
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| ---| ---|
| I want a website where I can get a broad and up-to-date information concerning the Benin Bronzes. | The site covers a broad range of issues relating to the Benin Bronzes. It explains what they are, describes their origins, their journeys over centuries, contemporary issues affecting them as well as tips on where to get more information about them. In future I intend to update information on the site and also integrate visitors comments and ideas regarding content |
| I want to have the possibility to make contact and interact with the creators of the site and members of the Benin Bronzes Club. | The footer contains media icons which links the visitor to the social media contacts of the creators. The signup page has a signup form which visitors can use to sign in and join the Benin Bronzes Club. |

Frequent Visitors
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| ---| ---|
| I want a site that not only offers me information but also gives me advice, recommendations and help on where to get further information that I may need. | The site has historical and contemporary information on the home and timeline pages. The gallery page has a catalogue of images. On the home page visitors are recommended to use a link which leads to another website where they could get more information and help. The home page and signup page also advices visitors to join the Benin Bronzes Club. |

#### Full Testing
Full testing was performed on:
- Laptop:
    - Lenovo V15-IGL
- Mobile Device:
    - LG Velvet
#### General Testing
- The site pages were tested on Chrome, Firefox and Edge browsers and they all worked out well.
- I confirm that the [form input fields](/assets/images/form-input-test.webp) in the signup page were all tested and their validation check works.
### Fixed Bugs
### Unfixed Bugs
## Credits
### Code Used
- Code used to build the structure of the timeline on the timeline page was based on [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
- Code used to build the sign up form was based on Sign Up Form Challenge on [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/de/) Full Stack Development Software course
### Content
- Text content about the Benin Bronzes particularly information which was used in the showcase and issues sections of the home page as well as content on the timeline pages were sourced from online articles from [Digital Benin](https://digitalbenin.org/), from [History Extra](https://www.historyextra.com/), [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) and from [The Collector](https://www.thecollector.com/). 
- The structure and layout used to build the hero-image, the gallery page and the sign up page were based on examples from [Code Institute Love Running Walkthrough Project](https://code-institute-org.github.io/love-running-2.0/index.html)
- The structure and layout used to create the README file was modelled on example by [Kera Cudmore](https://github.com/kera-cudmore/readme-examples/blob/main/milestone1-readme.md) 
- The icons used in the timeline and footer section were sourced from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) 
### Media
#### Images
The images used for the site, namely the main hero image as well as other images in the home page, the timeline page, gallery page and sign up page were free source images from:
- [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Images)
- [Digital Benin](https://digitalbenin.org/) 
#### Video Clip
The video clip material used on the home page of the website was sourced from [YouTube](https://youtube.com)  
### Acknowledgements
I acknowledge the following people who helped me complete this project:
- [Jubril Akolade](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jubrillionaire/?originalSubdomain=ca) my Code Institute mentor

Commit message:

Add content to Fixed Bugs section in README file

README.md, after:

# Benin Bronzes

The Benin Bronzes website informs visitors about the origins, historic encounters and cultural relevance of the famous Benin Bronzes artefacts.

By combining historic events with contemporary issues relating to these artefacts it is desired that visitors to the website will gain more insights about the Benin Bronzes and as such awaken their support for those advocating for the return of these artefacts back to their place of origin Benin City.

![Image of the website](/assets/images/amiresponsive.webp)

[The live link to the hosted project](https://peterudu.github.io/benin-bronzes/) 

## User Experience (UX)
### User Stories
#### First Time Visitors Goals
- I want to be able to access and use the website with different screen-sized devices.
- I want an easy-to-use and easily navigable website.
#### Returning Visitors Goals
- I want a website where I can get a broad and up-to-date information concerning the Benin Bronzes.
- I want to have the possibility to make contact and interact with the creators of the site and members of the Benin Bronzes Club.
#### Frequent Visitors Goals
-  I want a site that not only offers me information but also gives me advice, recommendations and help on where to get further information that I may need.
 
## Design
### Colour Scheme
The body of the website pages is characterized by a light terracotta-coloured background which is used to present the basic face of the website. This colour was purposely chosen with the aim of blending the background colour with the traditional colour of the Benin Bronzes artefacts in order to capture the atmosphere of Benin City, the origin of where the objects were created. To achieve a contrasting display, dark shades of black and brown are used for the headings and for the text which gives the site’s visitor a calming feel.

![A range of colours](/assets/images/range-of-colors.webp)
The colour choice was aided using the [webfx color-picker](https://www.webfx.com/web-design/color-picker/ ) tool

### Typography
Google Fonts was used to select the following free fonts:
- Roboto for the prominent h1 and h2 headings.
- Raleway for the body text content on the website.

Both fonts are san-serif and they complement each other.
### Imagery

### Wireframes
Wireframes of the home page were created for mobile and desktop devices.

- [Wireframe of home page on a desktop device](/assets/images/home-page-wireframe-desktop.webp)
- [Wireframe of home page on a mobile device](/assets/images/home-page-wireframe-mobile.webp)

### Features
The Benin Bronzes website has four pages, namely the home page, timeline page, gallery page and sign up page. Each of these pages are linked to one another and they can be accessed using the navigation menu in the navigation bar.
- Navigation Bar
    - The navigation bar is responsive and is a feature on all the pages of the website. The navigation bar contains the logo to the left and to the right a navigation menu with links to the home page, the timeline page, gallery page and the sign up page.
    - The navigation bar allows the site user to navigate from one page to another without the need to return back to the previous page. This provides for a better user experience.
    

    ![Navigation Bar](/assets/images/navigation-bar.webp)

- Footer
    - The footer is responsive. It is a feature on all the pages of the website. The footer contains social media links which open to a new tab and so allowing the user to navigate easily.
    - The footer enables and employs the user to remain connected using social media

    ![Footer](/assets/images/footer.webp)

- Home Page
    - Hero image with text overlay
        - The home page has a large hero image of a Benin Bronze artefact and a text overlay which together immediately informs the visitor what the whole site is about.
        - The hero image with the animation immediately captures the attention of the user towards the site and makes them inquisitive for more.


        ![Hero image with text overlay](/assets/images/hero-image-feature.webp)
    

    - Showcase section
        - The showcase introduces the main object of focus of the site, namely the Benin Bronzes to the user, explains what the artefacts are, and explains their importance to its original creators and why they are also important today.
        -  This showcase section content benefits the users of the site because with this information they are quickly captured in the story being told and get the motivation to continue to use the site.
        - As part of the section is an embedded video clip with entertaining background information of the artefacts and about the issues involved. The video is a lighter way for a site visitor to quickly grasp the essence of sites main message.


      ![Showcase section](/assets/images/showcase-section.webp)
    - Issues section
        - The issues section begins with an image of a significant event that occured in the past. It then focuses on contemporary topics and events concerning the Benin Bronzes.
        -  The issues section also gives users tips on where and how to get further information on the subject matter and refers them to the signup page. 
        - With the information gained in this section the user will be able to interract with the author of the website and make contributions.


      ![Issues section](/assets/images/issues-section.webp)


### Accessibility
In order to ensure that the website is accessible the following measures were taken:
- The code was written using semantic HTML.
- In the footer I added aria-labels to icons used as links to social media to enable screen readers understand their purpose.
- The alt attribute was used for images on the website to describe them to screen readers.
- I used contrasting background colour and text colours on the website
## Technologies Used
### Languages Used
The languages used to create this site were HTML and CSS
### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used
Git was used for version control.

Github was used to save and store the files for the website.

Gitpod workspace was used to write and edit code for the website.

Balsamiq was used to create wireframes for the website.

Fontawesome was use to generate icons on the website.

Google Fonts was used to import fonts used on the website.

Chrome DevTools was used to inspect the rendered HTML and test out features of the website.

[Tiny PNG](https://tinypng.com/) was used to compress some images used on the website.

[Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive) was used to show how the website would look on different devices.

[Birme](https://www.birme.net/?no_resize=true&image_format=webp) was used to change images to webp format.

[Favicon.io](https://favicon.io/) was used to create favicon for the website

## Deployment & Local Development
### Deployment
The site was deployed to GitHub pages. For the deployment the following steps are required:
1. Login to GitHub repository and navigate to the Settings tab. 
2. From the left sidebar options select Pages from the menu.
3. Under section Github Pages go to subsection Build and deployment, then set Branch to main and click save. The website is deployed and a live link for the website will be generated.

### Local Development
To clone this project proceed with the following steps:
1. Login to GitHub and go to the repository of this project, https://github.com/peterudu/benin-bronzes.
2. Chose and click the green Code button.
3. Select a cloning method from one of options, either HTTPS, SSH or GitHub CLI and copy the offered link.
4. Open up the terminal of your code editor, select a directory for your project, type in the Git command  - ‘git clone’ and then paste in the copied link from the github repository.

## Testing
### Automated Testing
#### W3C Validator
- [W3C HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/) was used to validate the HTML on the following pages of the website.
    - [index.html](/assets/images/w3c-indexhtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors
    - [timeline.html](/assets/images/w3c-timelinehtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors
    - [gallery.html](/assets/images/w3c-galleryhtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors 
    - [signup.html](/assets/images/w3c-signuphtml-validation.webp) - Passed test, no errors

<br>

- [W3C CSS validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) was used to validate the CSS stylesheet.
    - [style.css](/assets/images/w3c-css-validator.webp) - passed test no error
#### Lighthouse
I used the Lighthouse feature from Chrome Developer Tools to test the levels of accessibility, performance and best practices for moblie and desktop devices. For both devices the accessibility results were over 97 percent.
- [Desktop Results](/assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-results.webp)
- [Mobile Result](/assets/images/lighthouse-mobile-results.webp)
### Manual Testing
#### Testing User Stories
Firsttime Visitors
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| ---| ---|
| I want to be able to access and use the website with different screen-sized devices. | I developed the site with the set out goal of it being responsive as such it could be accessed with either a mobile phone, a tablet, a laptop or a desktop. |
| I want an easy-to-use and easily navigable website. | The site pages have an identical navigation bar with menu links which enables the visitor to easily move from one page to the next. I used a uniform background on all pages, large readable headings, simple icons and interesting video medium to create an enjoyable experience for the visitor. |

Returning Visitors
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| ---| ---|
| I want a website where I can get a broad and up-to-date information concerning the Benin Bronzes. | The site covers a broad range of issues relating to the Benin Bronzes. It explains what they are, describes their origins, their journeys over centuries, contemporary issues affecting them as well as tips on where to get more information about them. In future I intend to update information on the site and also integrate visitors comments and ideas regarding content |
| I want to have the possibility to make contact and interact with the creators of the site and members of the Benin Bronzes Club. | The footer contains media icons which links the visitor to the social media contacts of the creators. The signup page has a signup form which visitors can use to sign in and join the Benin Bronzes Club. |

Frequent Visitors
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| ---| ---|
| I want a site that not only offers me information but also gives me advice, recommendations and help on where to get further information that I may need. | The site has historical and contemporary information on the home and timeline pages. The gallery page has a catalogue of images. On the home page visitors are recommended to use a link which leads to another website where they could get more information and help. The home page and signup page also advices visitors to join the Benin Bronzes Club. |

#### Full Testing
Full testing was performed on:
- Laptop:
    - Lenovo V15-IGL
- Mobile Device:
    - LG Velvet
#### General Testing
- The site pages were tested on Chrome, Firefox and Edge browsers and they all worked out well.
- I confirm that the [form input fields](/assets/images/form-input-test.webp) in the signup page were all tested and their validation check works.
### Fixed Bugs
| No. | Bug | How I fixed the problem |
| ---| ---| ---|
| 1 | Four error notifications were displayed after I ran the W3C HTML validator test. The errors were related to width and height percentage values for HTML iframe and figure > img elements. ![w3c-error-notification](/assets/images/error-notification.webp) | I researched on Google and got a suggested solution to change the art of styling. I removed the inline HTML width and height styling element attributes from the iframe (YouTube video) and the img in figure nested (image with caption) HTML elements and instead used CSS stylesheet to set the values for width and height. I ran the W3C HTML validator test again and there were no more errors |
| 2 |  |  |
| 3 |  |  |
| 4 |  |  |
### Unfixed Bugs
## Credits
### Code Used
- Code used to build the structure of the timeline on the timeline page was based on [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
- Code used to build the sign up form was based on Sign Up Form Challenge on [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/de/) Full Stack Development Software course
### Content
- Text content about the Benin Bronzes particularly information which was used in the showcase and issues sections of the home page as well as content on the timeline pages were sourced from online articles from [Digital Benin](https://digitalbenin.org/), from [History Extra](https://www.historyextra.com/), [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) and from [The Collector](https://www.thecollector.com/). 
- The structure and layout used to build the hero-image, the gallery page and the sign up page were based on examples from [Code Institute Love Running Walkthrough Project](https://code-institute-org.github.io/love-running-2.0/index.html)
- The structure and layout used to create the README file was modelled on example by [Kera Cudmore](https://github.com/kera-cudmore/readme-examples/blob/main/milestone1-readme.md) 
- The icons used in the timeline and footer section were sourced from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) 
### Media
#### Images
The images used for the site, namely the main hero image as well as other images in the home page, the timeline page, gallery page and sign up page were free source images from:
- [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Images)
- [Digital Benin](https://digitalbenin.org/) 
#### Video Clip
The video clip material used on the home page of the website was sourced from [YouTube](https://youtube.com)  
### Acknowledgements
I acknowledge the following people who helped me complete this project:
- [Jubril Akolade](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jubrillionaire/?originalSubdomain=ca) my Code Institute mentor
